Refactoring certificate documentation (#127)
gardener/gardener-extension-shoot-cert-service: docs/usage/request_cert.md

---
title: Manage certificates with Gardener for public domain
level: beginner
category: Networking
scope: operator
publishdate: 2022-07-20
tags: ["task"]
description: Use the Gardener cert-management to get fully managed, publicly trusted TLS certificates
---

# Manage certificates with Gardener for public domain
## Introduction
Dealing with applications on Kubernetes which offer a secure service endpoints (e.g. HTTPS) also require you to enable a 
secured communication via SSL/TLS. With the [certificate extension](https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-shoot-cert-service) enabled, Gardener can manage commonly trusted X.509 certificate for your application 
endpoint. From initially requesting certificate, it also handeles their renewal in time using the free Let's Encrypt API.

> **There are DNS 2 senarios with which you can use the certificate extension**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**There are two senarios with which you can use the certificate extension**
```

Author: done

### Using an ingress Resource
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: amazing-ingress
  annotations:
    cert.gardener.cloud/purpose: managed
    # Optional but recommended, this is going to create the DNS entry at the same time
    dns.gardener.cloud/class: garden
    dns.gardener.cloud/ttl: "600"
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    # Must not exceed 64 characters.
    - amazing.example.com
    # Certificate and private key reside in this secret.
    secretName: testsecret-tls
  rules:
  - host: amazing.example.com
    http:
      paths:
      - pathType: Prefix
        path: "/"
        backend:
          service:
            name: amazing-svc
            port:
              number: 8080
```

Replace the `hosts` and `rules[].host` value again with your own domain and adjust the remaining Ingress attributes in accordance with your deployment (e.g. the above is for an `istio` Ingress controller and forwards traffic to a `service1` on port 80).

### Using a service type LoadBalancer
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    cert.gardener.cloud/secretname: test-service-secret
    dns.gardener.cloud/dnsnames: example.example.com

>     dns.gardener.cloud/ttl: "600"
>     dns.gardener.cloud/class: garden
>     # Optional

Reviewer: TTL is optional, too.

```suggestion
    dns.gardener.cloud/class: garden
    # Optional
    dns.gardener.cloud/ttl: "600"
```

Author: done

| `spec.secretRef.name` | `cert.gardener.cloud/secretname:` | `any-name` | Yes for certificate and Service | Specifies the secret which contains the certificate/key pair. If the secret is not available yet, it'll be created automatically as soon as the certificate has been issued. |
| `spec.issuerRef.name` | `cert.gardener.cloud/issuer:` | E.g. `gardener` | No | Specifies the issuer you want to use. Only necessary if you request certificates for [custom domains](#Custom-Domains). |
| N/A | `cert.gardener.cloud/revoked:` | `true` otherwise always false | No | Use only to revoke a certificate, see [reference](#references) for more details |

## Request a wildcard certificate
In order to avoid the creation of multiples certificates for every single endpoints, you may want to create a wildcard certificate for your shoot's default cluster.

```yaml
apiVersion: cert.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1

> kind: Certificate

Reviewer: I don't understand why you are switching to a Certificate object here.
It is convenient to still use annotations on Ingress or Service services, but always use the same wildcard domain name.

Author: See below
